PRL: update guardian-based duplication (#1194)
ihmeuw/vivarium_research: docs/source/models/concept_models/vivarium_census_synthdata/concept_model.rst

simulants based on age and GQ status: Simulants younger than 18  (<18) and not
in GQ; simulants 18-23 (18 <= age < 24) and not in GQ; and simulants under 24
(<24) and in GQ.

For each of the three categories of simulants, the maximum duplication rate will
be calculated based on those who have a guardian living at a different address
in the sim. Note that all simulants in *college* GQ are initialized with a
guardian living at a different address, but this is not true for simulants in
other types of GQ, so all three maximum duplication rates will be less than
100%.

The user can then pick a rate of duplication between 0 and 100% **for each of
the three categories of simulants**. A default duplication rate of 5% will be
selected for each of the three categories of simulants. That is, each simulant
under 24 is duplicated at a guardian's address with default probability 0.05,
and there should be three user parameters for overriding this probability, one
for each simulant category. The duplicated row should have the same
simulant-specific attributes as the original, such as name and birth date, but
different address-specific attributes such as address fields and relation to

> reference person.

Author: Sure, I can change "address-specific" to "household-specific."

As far as know, we have **not** specified what the relation to reference person should be when duplicated at a guardian's address. Is there an easy way to figure this out based on how guardians were assigned? (Side note: What is the relation to reference person for someone living in group quarters?)

I hadn't thought any of this through very carefully -- I just realized that we hadn't specified what the duplicate row should look like, so I quickly added something. Seems like it probably needs more detail...

> reference person.

Author: I just added a to-do to specify the relation to reference reference person in case we don't figure this out before I leave on Wednesday.

> reference person.

Reviewer: > What is the conceptual difference between "household" and "address" in our simulation? Are there any cases where these are not the same thing?

At a single point in time, they are always the same thing, if you consider "address" to mean "address_id." If you consider "address" to mean the actual address string, it is technical possible though extremely unlikely that multiple households could have the same address due to a random collision.

Over time, they are different because a household can move as a unit and change address.

> What is the relation to reference person for someone living in group quarters?

We have special values in this column for "Institutionalized GQ pop" and "Noninstitutionalized GQ pop". We should probably change the names of these, and [document them](https://pseudopeople.readthedocs.io/en/latest/datasets/index.html#id1)!

> reference person.

Reviewer: As for the original question: if it's not already specified somewhere, I think we can do something simple like use "Other relative" for all guardian-duplicated rows.

> reference person.

Author: I went ahead and specified that relation to reference person should be "Other relative" in the row that's duplicated in the guardian's household.

If the user selects a duplication rate that is higher than the calculated
maximum rate in the sim, a warning should be issued explaining that the selected
rate is greater than the maximum available, and the actual rate of duplication
should be set to the maximum for the specified simulant category. More
precisely, the conditional probabiity that a row in the spceified category is
duplicated, given that the row is eligible for guardian-based duplication,
should be set to 1.

.. note::

    If finding the maximum rate proves too difficult to implement, we can reassess this approach

To create guardian-based duplicates, each duplicated simulant will be included
in the final dataset twice, once at their address of residence and once at their
guardian's address. If a simulant has more than 1 guardian living at a different
address, only duplicate them once, for a maximum of 2 occurences in the end

> dataset. Select the guardian at random.

Author: Most of this language is from the original version. @SylLutze @zmbc Did we restrict to two occurrences just for simplicity? I think I'd prefer to have the possibility of having more duplicates, but I guess it's not entirely clear how to determine when extra duplicates would happen based on the user parameters we've specified.

Reviewer: I agree it would be good to have more duplicates possible, though we would be limited to 3 occurrences due to the 2-guardian system. The thing that seems tricky is how to design intuitive parameters that also allow that.

(<24) and in GQ.

For each of the three categories of simulants, the maximum duplication rate will
be calculated based on those who have a guardian living at a different address
in the sim. Note that all simulants in *college* GQ are initialized with a
guardian living at a different address, but this is not true for simulants in
other types of GQ, so all three maximum duplication rates will be less than
100%.

The user can then pick a rate of duplication between 0 and 100% **for each of
the three categories of simulants**. A default duplication rate of 5% will be
selected for each of the three categories of simulants. That is, each simulant
under 24 is duplicated at a guardian's household with default probability 0.05,
and there should be three user parameters for overriding this probability, one
for each simulant category.
If the user selects a duplication rate that is higher than the calculated
maximum rate in the sim, a warning should be issued explaining that the selected
rate is greater than the maximum available, and the actual rate of duplication
should be set to the maximum for the specified simulant category. More

> precisely, the conditional probabiity that a row in the spceified category is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
precisely, the conditional probability that a row in the specified category is
```
